# SeniorThesis

Protecting user privacy is essential to keep in mind when designing robots meant for in-home deployment because of the presence of potentially sensitive and user-identifiable information within the environment. However, when it comes to Human-Robot Interaction (HRI), creating smart, sociable robots is also an essential but difficult task. This work explores the intersection of these two challenges, ultimately proposing an approach that produces a system to predict the user’s intent to interact with a robot without the usage of sensitive data. Specifically, great attention was taken into the selection of sensors that are unable to capture sensitive user data in the first place. The system leverages a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) Recurrent Neural Network to make predictions anticipating the intent to interact based on the more sparse information captured by a wave radar sensor, as opposed to popular methods that use cameras. This system is situated within the context of the Ommie robot, an anxiety reduction robot that guides users in deep-breathing exercises and is meant for in-home use. A novel dataset is produced, consisting of nearly 100 trials of participants deciding to interact or not to interact with Ommie and includes data captured by wave radar, multi-directional microphone, RGB camera, depth camera, and capacitive touch sensors. Results indicate that radar data does indeed yield accurate results for predicting intent to interact and thus can be an equally useful sensor for contributing to intelligent robot behaviors, whilst collecting far less invasive data. Future work aims to integrate the system onto the physical Ommie robot and to further investigate the usage of other low-level sensors for producing social robot behaviors.
